[1. Terminology](1.%20Terminology.md)
[0. The Nomad](0.%20The%20Nomad.md)
[Level Design](Level%20Design.md)
[Foes](Foes.md)
[User Interface](User%20Interface.md)
[Global Mechanics](Global%20Mechanics.md)

## Game Identity / Mantra:
2D platformer about a desert nomad that ascends a mysterious and ancient ruin to strike down the powerful sorcerer that has tormented his people for centuries.

## Design Pillars:
Mysterious, DEEP LORE, dark, fantasy, dry humour
-   Smooth, fun platforming
-   Intricate map
-   Engaging story, mechanics woven into story

## Genre/Story/Mechanics Summary:
You play as a primitive desert nomad, seeking to ascend one of the many black pillars that populate the otherwise barren desert. The pillars are dangerous ancient machines filled with devious traps, deadly automatons and the corpses of those mad enough to enter. They have been thought impossible to scale, but not for you.

You will ascend one of these ancient pillars and claim the treasure that awaits you at the peak, danger be damned. The game is a metroidvania (a platformer with a focus on combat & exploration) built around the idea of using multipurpose tools that can be used for combat, platforming & exploration all at once.

## Features:
An interesting world built from the ground up
A story with meaningful choices and different paths
A vast world filled with interesting and unique places to explore
NPCs with their own storylines that can be followed or abandoned at your leisure
Engaging platforming challenges and satisfying combat with various mobs
Exciting boss fights

## Interface:
Mouse & keyboard. Minimal UI. HP, ammo, etc. represented visually or UI as close to where the player should be looking as possible. E.g. weapon charge on aiming reticle, glow around player to represent guardian spirit's protection, and so on.

## Art Style:
Generally washed out and drab except for key areas, e.g. checkpoints, to make them feel more inviting, or on enemies, to make them stand out and seem more threatening.

## Music/Sound:
Mixture of acoustic & synth sounds with a middle eastern folk music style. SFX will use recorded acoustic sounds mixed with synthesised SFX where appropriate