# Abilities

## Design Notes
Speed, maneuverability, agility. The character is a desert nomad. Swift, light on his feet, he dodges and deflects, avoiding danger. Thus, none of his moves should make the player feel slow The Nomad should feel fast and fluid. He should be comfortable and deft in his movements, like the skilled warrior nomad he is.

The Nomad’s default abilities should also make “sense”, insofar as you can do everything you would expect you can. Running, crawling, jumping, fighting. Different varieties of jumps including long, high and regular. You can crouch, crawl, slide. Each movement should easily chain into the next and able to be ‘cancelled’, i.e no locking you into long animations.

Basic movements are just that, basic. In general, it's anything a human would be capable of, even if it's at the extreme end of human ability. Things like wall jumping, 

Wind Magic adds a layer of complexity to the Nomad's movement. It is limited by the Wind Gauge. Wind moves are gross movement used to enhance traversal, with fine adjustments made by basic movements. Most basic movements have a Wind version that is executed by using the basic control + the wind move button, and the same goes for basic attacks and the wind attack button.
# Template
This is a template of how this section is formatted. Red is the control category, followed by control sub-category, then the move's name, controls, and description. Like so:
## Category
### Sub-Category
- [x] **Name**: *Controls*
	- Description

# Moves
Grouped by gross category. Checklist to monitor implementation.
## Utility
- [ ] **Look Mode**: *Hold Look-Mode*
	- Normally the camera is fixed, but by holding down the Look Mode button, the camera is freed to an extent. This allows the player to see further than normal, potentially glimpsing hidden areas.
	- Prevents the player from moving whilst active.

## Platforming
### Inspiration
**Hollow Knight**, **Super Mario 64**
### Basic Movement
- [x] **Move left/right**
	- The Nomad runs to the left and right.
- [x] **Jump**
	- Variable jump - height changes depending on time the jump button is held.
- [ ] **High Jump**: *Crouch + Jump*
	- A higher than normal Jump straight upward - minor lateral adjustment allowed.
- [x] **Crouch**: *Crouch*
	- Crouching low-profiles certain attacks. Can later be combine with the Wind Dash for a 'slide'.
- [x] **Long Jump**: *Wind Dash + Crouch + Jump*
	- Jumping during a slide will perform a jump that is longer than normal, but with less height.
- [ ] **Crawl**: *Move + crouch*
	- The 'crawl' will be fast, like an animal running on all fours.
- [ ] **Ledge grab**: *Move → Ledge*
	- Falling just short of a ledge whilst holding Move in its direction will trigger a ledge grab, which instantly lifts the Nomad over the ledge.
	- Nomad does not linger on the ledge, and the move executes quickly.
	- Does not occur if move input is not held.
	- Only occurs when the Nomad is in a 'ready' state, i.e. does not cancel other moves.


### Advanced Movement
- [ ] **Wall Grip**: *Jump + Move to wall*
	- You’ll grip onto and slowly slide down a wall.
	- Does not occur without move input.
	- 'Sticky' i.e Nomad remains on the wall until another input occurs.
- [ ] **Wall Jump**: *Wall Grip + Move away from Wall + Jump*
	- You’ll launch yourself off the wall
- [ ] Wall Release: *Wall Grip + Move away from Wall*
- [ ] **Slide Extension (Roll)**: *Hold: Slide*
	- Holding the slide key will cause the player to enter a roll. Rolling causes the character to curl into a ball and retain current momentum, but prevents manual acceleration. This is meant to be used in tandem with the weapons and obstacles in the environment. For example, firing the blaster to gain momentum, then rolling to preserve momentum to traverse an area quickly, or roll up a ramp at high speed.
	- Pressing the 'slide' 'crouch' or key will exit the roll. Pressing the 'jump' key will cause the player to jump out of the roll.
	- Consider top speed. Don't want sonic levels.
- **Glide**: *Hold: Jump*
	- Allows you to float to the ground slowly.
	- Does not cost Wind.

## Melee
Note: Melee attacks should not restrict movement. Should be able to cancel freely.
Look to **Odin Sphere**, for inspiration. The movement & melee is very fluid. The melee attacks changes depending on current movement state. For example - moving, jumping, crouching, sliding, standing still, etc. 

### Ground Melee
 - [ ] **Up Slash**: Hold up + Melee
 - [ ] **Forward slash**: Moving left/right + Melee
 - [ ] **Standing slash**: Standing + Melee
 - [ ] **Blade sweep**: Crouching + Melee
 - [ ] **Sliding slash**: Sliding + Melee

### Air Melee
- [ ] **Air slash**: Airborne + Melee
- [ ] **Air slash moving left/right**: Airborne + Move left/right + Melee
- [ ] **Air down slash**: Airborne + Move Down + Melee
- [ ] **Air uppercut**: Airborne + Move Up + Melee



## Wind Magic
The guardian spirit empowers the nomad with powerful wind magic that can be used in many ways. It can push the nomad around relative to his surroundings, or push the nomad's surroundings around relative to him. Its effect changes depending on the current state of the character.

### Notes
- [ ] **Wind is directional**: Wind moves character in direction of current movement. If no movement key is pressed, wind moves character in last held direction.
- [ ] Enemies in path of gust get pushed away
- [ ] Character can use Wind indefinitely whilst grounded
- [ ] Character has a Wind Meter which determines how much wind they can use in quick succession.

### Ideas
- Fire magic: same mechanically but with different effects on enemies & surroundings. Can be hot-swapped with wind.
- Later unlock ability to 'hold' Wind Move, allowing sustained dash/sustained flight

### The Wind Gauge
- [ ] *Using Wind Magic depletes the Wind Gauge*.
- [ ] *When Airborne, the Wind Gauge does not regenerate*.
- [ ] *When Grounded, the Wind Gauge regenerates very quickly if depleted*. Repeated attacks will deplete the gauge faster than it will regenerate, which raises the next point:
	- [ ] *Killing enemies restores the Wind Gauge*. In this way, the Nomad can more string kills together for a longer Wind Attack combo but keeping the Wind Gauge level high.
	- Charging a Wind Attack draws in enemy Essence (like in **Ninja Gaiden**), making the Charge Attack a great combo extender.
- Wind Movement depletes the most Wind Gauge and is the most efficient movement option.
- Wind Attacks deplete less Wind Gauge, and while some of them provide movement, it's less efficient than using pure Wind Movement.


## Control Scheme I
This control scheme uses two unique buttons for all wind-magic abilities. The Wind Move button is used in tandem with existing movement abilities, while the Wind Attack button is used on its own.

### Wind Movement
*Unlocked when you gain the Guardian Spirit.*
The 'Wind Move' button is used to propel the character around in various ways & directions. It can also push enemies around, and depending on when it's pressed has different effects/properties (e.g. if close to a wall or the ground, the wind will hit the wall and travel along it). However it always has the effect of pushing the player in the desired direction.

#### Wind Dashes
- [ ] **Dash**: *Grounded + Wind Move*
      When grounded, you are limited to dashing left or right. Without inputting a direction, you'll dash in the direction you're facing.
	- [ ] Default is facing.
- [ ] Air Dash:
	- [ ] Airborne: Can dash in 8 directions; Default is facing.
**Slide**: *Wind Move + Crouch*
	- As Dash but low profile.
	- [ ] Fix inputs

#### Launch & Burst
There are two unique moves available when Grounded & using Wind Move.
- [ ] **Launch**: *Grounded: Up + Wind Move*
	- Whilst standing, you can Launch yourself into the air by holding Up and using Wind Move. This also causes a burst, pushing away enemies to the left and right of you.
- [ ] **Burst**: *Grounded + Down + Wind Move*
	- You can also burst without launching by holding Down and using Wind Move. You remain Grounded, and push enemies away to the left and right of you.

### Wind Attacks
*Unlocked when you gain the Guardian Spirit.*
Wind Attacks use wind to enhance regular melee with the scimitar.
- The character does not experience recoil when attacking with wind, however neither do enemies, except with certain moves.
- Instead, the wind is focused and slices through enemies - it has greater range and damage compared to basic, unenhanced attacks, but slower speed.
- Whilst Airborne, Wind Attacks freeze the Nomad's position, and maintain the position of Airborne enemies, allowing them to be juggled with multiple Wind Attacks.
- Because killing enemies restores Wind Gauge, the Nomad can use enemies to extend platforming. This means care will need to be taken with where enemies are placed. However, given the difficulty of execution, bypassing sections by using kills to extend platforming could be considered an alternate way of traversing the game, rewarding proficiency.

#### Ground Wind Attacks
 - [ ] **Wind Slash: Up**: *Hold up + Wind Attack*
 - [ ] **Wind Slash: Forward**: *Moving left/right + Wind Attack*
 - [ ] **Wind Slash: Standing**: *Wind Attack*
 - [ ] **Wind Sweep**: *Crouching + Wind Attack*
 - [ ] **Dashing Wind Slash**: *Dash + Wind Attack*
 - [ ] **Sliding Wind Sweep**: *Sliding + Wind Attack*
 - [ ] **Charge Wind**: *Hold Wind Attack*
 - [ ] **Wind Parry**: *Wind Attack + Wind Move*

#### Air Wind Attacks
- [ ] **Air Wind Slash**: *Airborne: Wind Attack*
- [ ] **Air Down Wind Slash**: *Airborne: Down + Wind Attack*
- [ ] **Air Wind Uppercut**: *Airborne: Up + Wind Attack*
- [ ] **AIr Charge Wind**: *Airborne: Hold Wind Attack*
	- [ ] Character retains air position whilst charging.
	- [ ] Attack can be released in one of 8 directions, deliverin a long-range super-high-damage wind slice.
	- [ ] Charge has three levels:
	- Level 1: Charge very briefly.
	- Level 2: Charge for several seconds.
	- Level 3: Charge for several more seconds.
	- [ ] Charge will attract lingering **Essence**, which, if absorbed, instantly increases the charge level and restores the Wind Gauge.

### Special Melee
- [ ] **Charge Melee**: Hold: Melee (wind)
- [ ] **Wind Parry**: *Wind Attack + Wind Move*

## Control Scheme II
### 🔒Alternate Wind Movement
*Unlocked when you gain the Guardian Spirit.*
Wind moves are unlocked gradually & each has their own unique control.

#### Dashes
- [ ] **Dash**: *Double Tap move left/right*
- [ ] **Air Dash**: *Airborne: As Dash*
- [ ] **Wind Jump**: *Airborne: Jump*
- [ ] **Wind Fall**: *Airborne: Down + Jump*
- [ ] **Wind Slide**: *Double Tap Slide*
	- Drastically increases your slide speed. You continue to slide for as long as you hold Slide.

#### Launch & Burst
Wind button is used for launches and bursts only in this scheme.
There are two unique moves available when Grounded & using Wind Move.
- [ ] **Burst**: *Burst*
	- Whilst standing, you can cause a burst of Wind by holding down and pressing wind move. The wind travels both left and right, causing knockback away from you on both sides.
	- [ ] **Wall Burst**: *On-Wall: Burst*
		- You can also Burst on a Wall.
- [ ] **Launch**: *Grounded: Up + Burst*
	- Whilst standing, you can Launch yourself into the air by using the Burst button whilst holding Up. This also causes a burst.

### 🔒Wind Attacks
*Unlocked when you gain the Guardian Spirit.*
Wind Attacks use wind to enhance regular melee with the scimitar. The character does not experience recoil when attacking with wind, however neither do enemies. Instead, the wind is focused and slices through enemies - it has greater range, damage, but slower speed.

#### Ground Wind Attacks
 - [ ] **Up Wind Slash**: *Hold up + Wind Attack*
 - [ ] **Forward Wind Slash**: *Moving left/right + Wind Attack*
 - [ ] **Standing Wind Slash**: *Standing + Wind Attack*
 - [ ] **Wind Sweep**: *Crouching + Wind Attack*
 - [ ] **Sliding Wind Thrust**: *Sliding + Wind Attack*
 - [ ] **Charge Wind**: *Hold Wind Attack*

#### Air Wind Attacks
- [ ] **Air Wind Slash**: *Airborne: Wind Attack*
	- [ ] Can influence recoil by holding move left/right
- [ ] **Air Down Wind Slash**: *Airborne: Down + Wind Attack*
- [ ] **Air Wind Uppercut**: *Airborne: Up + Wind Attack*
- [ ] **AIr Charge Wind**: *Airborne: Hold Wind Attack*
	- [ ] Character retains air position whilst charging.
	- [ ] Attack can be released in one of 8 directions, deliverin a long-range super-high-damage wind slice.
	- [ ] Charge has three levels:
	- Level 1: Charge very briefly.
	- Level 2: Charge for several seconds.
	- Level 3: Charge for several more seconds.