# Writing

[Story & Gameplay](Story%20&%20Gameplay.md)
[Lore](Lore.md)
[Traveler's Journals](Traveler's%20Journals.md)
[NPCs](NPCs.md)
[Scenes](Scenes.md)

## Who?
You play as a primitive desert nomad, member of a tribe that wanders the desert, pursued by the murderous undead that stalk the desert.

## What?
You seek to ascend one of the many black pillars that populate the otherwise barren desert. The pillars are dangerous ancient machines filled with devious traps, deadly automatons and the corpses of those mad enough to enter. They have been thought impossible to scale, but not for you. You will ascend one of these ancient pillars and claim the treasure that awaits you at the peak, danger be damned.

As you ascend the pillar, you will discover more and more of its secrets. You will meet other adventurers, undead and wayward souls that will both help and hinder you as you explore the tower.

## When?
In the world's second Dark Age, following a great war that utilised powerful technology that sent the world into a primitive age of fear and danger.

## Where?
The deserts of Nesium, a barren place filled with great black pillars that inspire fear and awe among the desert people. These people wander the desert in nomadic tribes, hiding in rock formations and elaborate cave systems.

## Why?
Your people have been plagued by a blight of living corpses, vicious skeletons that assault the desert people and take their corpses to a far off place. Your people are dwindling, their numbers every increasing. Your tribe has tracked them down to one of the great pillars, and intend to hunt the Lich that inhabits it.

Caught in a sandstorm, you are separated from your hunting party, and must traverse the desert alone to reach the pillar. When you reach it, you find the remains of the hunting party strewn about the desert sand. In the midst of the carnage stands a lone skeleton, clad in a black cloak. The skeleton gives you the choice to fight or flee. If you flee, you’re shot in the back of the head.