*Incl. Zone Name, Description, Purpose Foes & Hazards, Features, Stages, Connects To*
# Desert Zone
## Description
The desert zone includes all areas on the surface outside of the pillar. It includes the first stage of the game, and some later stages that involve further treks across the desert.

## Design
### Purpose
**Narrative**: Establishes the desert as a harsh environment, but also one in which a home can be made. Establishes the scenario and the character's motivations - conflicting loyalty, vengeance.
**Gameplay**: Teaches the basic mechanics and sets up the story.

### Visuals
Colour: Dry, washed out, ochre colours. The character doesn't stand out here. Contrast with the deep, cold grey of the pillar.
Aesthetic: 

## Implementation
### Enemies
In descending order of complexity
- [ ] **Rock beetle**: Big heavy beetle that flies around and bonks you. Fixed pathing
- [ ] **scarab**: moves on a fixed path forward. moving hazard.
- [ ] **ant vulture**: A bird as large as a man with enormous insect pincers. Encountered at high altitudes. 
	- [ ] **Swoop**: Flies low to the ground and passes the player to attack. Can be avoided with a simple jump.
- [ ] **big frog/scroad**: A giant brown toad with a scorpion's tail. Disguises itself as a cactus, hiding under the sand with its tail sticking out.
	- [ ] **Sting**: Hops forward and performs a ranged sting. Can slide underneath to avoid its attack, or slash at its stinging tail with good timing and distancing.
- [ ] **skeleton soldier**: An intelligent and fearsome foe - very complex. Reacts and acts quickly. Will perform different attacks depending on player positioning. A skeleton wielding a scimitar. The scimitar is a traditional weapon of the protagonist's home village.
	- [ ] **Lunge**: VS fleeing character. Jumps forward, sword raised above head, then slams it down on the ground.
	- [ ] **Windmill**: VS airborne character. Waves his sword in an upward circular motion attacking in front and above him.
	- [ ] **Double slash**: VS running/sliding character. Sometimes cancels the first slash into a windmill or lunge.
	- [ ] **Dodge**: Can dodge player attacks, followed up with one of the three above attacks.
	- [ ] **Run**: Normally walks, but sometimes breaks into a run.

### Obstacles
- [x] **Razor Rock**: These jagged, razor sharp rocks are formed by a certain mineral found in the deserts of Nesium. Simply touching them from any angle will damage the player.
- [x] **Bottomless Pit**
- [x] **Boulders**: Rolling boulders that hit the player cause heavy knockback. Move in a fixed direction when player enters the trigger zone. Break on contact with any wall.
- [ ] **Stillsand**: This is a kind of trap, indicated by shimmering sand on the surface. Walking over Stillsand will cause the grains to rocket upward, damaging the player. This is one of many phenomenon caused by Solvat.
- [ ] **Stalactites**: Small, sharp rocks that fall from the cave ceiling when the player passes under them.
- [ ] **Stalactite platforms**: Medium sized stalactites that fall when damaged by the player, lodging themselves into the ground below, creating a platform for traversal.
- [ ] **Collapsing Platforms**: Platforms that fall after a delay when the player steps on them. Player can still jump from the platform while it falls.
- [ ] **Disappearing platforms**: These platforms break and completely disappear after a delay when the player steps on them. Player cannot touch the platform once it disappears.

### Mechanics

### Scenes
- [ ] The Storm
- [ ] Fight with Solomon, the Gun Lich.
- [ ] Approaching the pillar

### Music
- [x] **Zone Theme**
- [ ] **Boss Theme: Solomon**

### Aesthetic Features

# Stages
## Stage 1: Approaching the Pillar
Linear trek through the desert leading up to the pillar. Life becomes more and more scarce as the Nomad heads further to the Pillar. Once the peak of the final dune is reached, life is no more, only skeletons, and the Nomad’s dead tribe members.

### Purpose
Teaches the basic mechanics and sets up the story.