### The Flesh Pits
The first real stage. Nechepso turns living men to undead, enchanting their bones such that they tear apart the flesh from the inside. The remaining flesh is tossed into the flesh pits. The restless souls of those that meet the gruesome fate have taken root in the flesh of their bodies, crawling the pits as shambling grotesque monsters. Down here, the player faces the Flesh Demon.

## Design
### Visuals
Visually there is a distinct visceral horror theme. The levels are strewn with everything from recognisable human corpses to indeterminate reddish-white pulp. There is also an ecosystem of sorts down here - insects, fungus and mould all grow and feast on the death. All on the background of sheer dark grey stone inlaid with ancient carvings.

Colours: red, yellow-white, ochre (primarily gore/viscera mixed with fungus and bacterial growth)

### Stage Design
The Nomad at this point has just obtained wind magic and has a feel for basic movement. 

## Lists
### Specific



## Implementation
### Enemies
In ascending order of presumed complexity.
8 **Enemies**; **Melee**: 6; **Projectile**: 2; **Ground**: 3; **Flying**: 5
- [ ] **Blood Fly**: flying. follows character when aggro'd
- [ ] **blood scarab**: A ground insect that walks along a fixed path. Can walk on walls or bounce between two walls. Dies in one hit, killable level hazard.
- [ ] **exploding spores**: follow the character. explode after a short time. telegraphed
- [ ] **exploding spore spawner**: fixed piece of fungus. spawns spores.
- [ ] **acid fly**: flies near character, shoots acid globs
- [ ] **Mosquito**: Flying. Follows character when aggro'd, then darts.
- [ ] **blood vulture**: flying. swoops character when aggro'd
- [ ] **skeleton soldier**: An intelligent and fearsome foe - very complex. Reacts and acts quickly. Will perform different attacks depending on player positioning. A skeleton wielding a scimitar. The scimitar is a traditional weapon of the protagonist's home village.
	- [ ] **Lunge**: VS fleeing character. Jumps forward, sword raised above head, then slams it down on the ground.
	- [ ] **Windmill**: VS airborne character. Waves his sword in an upward circular motion attacking in front and above him.
	- [ ] **Double slash**: VS running/sliding character. Sometimes cancels the first slash into a windmill or lunge.
	- [ ] **Dodge**: Can dodge player attacks, followed up with one of the three above attacks.
	- [ ] **Run**: Normally walks, but sometimes breaks into a run.
- [ ] **spidercrab**: crawls around on long spindly legs. attacks by stabbing out at the character. big/tough enemy. *I wonder if this could use a similar animation technique to creatures in Rainworld, or in the jungle section of Noita?*
	- [ ] leg stab
	- [ ] pincer
	- [ ] body slam

### Generic Items
Anything that's encountered more than once.
- [ ] **spinning sawblades/grindstones**
	- [ ] moving
	- [ ] staying still
	- [ ] multiple sizes
- [ ] **quicksand-like gorepits**. slowly sink into the pit. can only Launch yourself out of it. if you sink to a certain point, you can't get out. doesn't need tight timing.
- [ ] **crushing walls/floor/ceiling** - e.g. automatic & need good timing.
	- [ ] some are automatic
	- [ ] some are triggered
	- [ ] player dies when crushed between two walls
- [ ] **blood waterfalls** - move objects to interrupt flow, not necesserily using wind to interrupt flow directly
	- [ ] reconsider as purely aesthetic
- [x] **bottomless pits**
- [x] **moving walls & platforms**: These platforms move in a fixed pattern, whether circular, side to side or up and down. They are attached to the processing machinery.

## Specific Items
Obstacles and events encountered only once.
- Z: Boss fight
- learn wind magic abilities
	- dash
	- slide
	- air dash
- 
- The Mound
	- A mound of bodies that marks the beginning of the level
- The Pit
	- A large pit filled with skeleton enemies. The walls close in gradually. First the player has to fight and survive until the walls close far enough, then scale the edges before being crushed.
- Dash Section
	- learns about the Wind Dash
- Meets geildukhu

### Mechanics
- [ ] Scales: The character can divert blood flow to tip enormous scales that open sealed gates. 
- [ ] Wind switches: alter the level layout by moving it with the sheer force of your wind magic.

### Music
[[Music]]
- [ ] Zone Theme: Flesh Pits
- [ ] Boss Theme: 

### Scenes
#### Confirmed
- [ ] **Falling Down**: The Nomad's flesh remains fall down a series of stone shafts before landing with a sickening wet thump atop the flesh pile. Slowly, the Nomad's body is reformed by the guardian spirit's essence.
#### Proposed
- [ ] **Awakening**: The Nomad awakens in the company of Geildukhuk and a young girl (Fairy). The fairy & guardian spirit play whilst the nomad & geildukhuk have some dialogue.


### Aesthetic Features
- [ ] blood lakes
- [ ] piles of bodies
- [ ] weird combinations of fungus & viscera
- [ ] stone carvings
- [ ] vaguely ancient architecture