### The Flesh Pits
The first real stage. Nechepso turns living men to undead, enchanting their bones such that they tear apart the flesh from the inside. The remaining flesh is tossed into the flesh pits. The restless souls of those that meet the gruesome fate have taken root in the flesh of their bodies, crawling the pits as shambling grotesque monsters. Down here, the player faces the Flesh Demon.
# Design
## Visuals
Visually there is a distinct visceral horror theme. The levels are strewn with everything from recognisable human corpses to indeterminate reddish-white pulp. There is also an ecosystem of sorts down here - insects, fungus and mould all grow and feast on the death. All on the background of sheer dark grey stone inlaid with ancient carvings.

Colours: red, yellow-white, ochre (primarily gore/viscera mixed with fungus and bacterial growth)
## Stage Design
The Nomad at this point has just obtained wind magic and has a feel for basic movement. 
# Items
Items are any obstacle, NPC, location, asset, upgrade, enemy, etc. that the player may encounter in the Zone. They are Generic or Unique. Any item encountered more than once is Generic. Any item encountered just once is Unique.

Generic items can be developed independent of the level design and will populate the various rooms and stages - rather, the generic items will inform the design. Unique items should be developed in tandem with the design of the particular stage or room, and serve as defining elements of the Zone.

## Generic
### Generic Enemies
In ascending order of presumed complexity.
10 **Enemies**; **Melee**: 6; **Projectile**: 3; **Ground**: 3; **Flying**: 5
- [ ] **Blood Fly**:
	- [ ] flies in place (maybe a small path)
	- [ ] slower than character
	- [ ] follows character when aggro'd
	- [ ] aggro'd by entering "detection range"
	- [ ] de-aggros when you exit "engagement range"
	- [ ] hazardous on touch
- [ ] **blood scarab**: A ground insect that walks along a fixed path. Can walk on walls or bounce between two walls. Dies in one hit, killable level hazard.
- [ ] **exploding spores**: follow the character. explode after a short time. telegraphed
- [ ] **exploding spore spawner**: fixed piece of fungus. spawns spores.
- [ ] **acid fly**: flies near character, shoots acid globs
- [ ] **Mosquito**: Flying. Follows character when aggro'd, then darts.
- [ ] **blood vulture**: flying. swoops character when aggro'd
- [ ] **skeleton archer**: shoots arrows at the player from a distance with brief pauses between. when the player gets close, he runs away, unless he has an arrow nocked. when he takes enough damage, he plays dead until the player gains enough distance.
	- [ ] **revive**: 
	- [ ] **arrow**: skeleton knocks and looses an arrow
	- [ ] **flee**: 
- [ ] **skeleton soldier**: An intelligent and fearsome foe - very complex. Reacts and acts quickly. Will perform different attacks depending on player positioning. A skeleton wielding a scimitar. The scimitar is a traditional weapon of the protagonist's home village.
	- [ ] **Lunge**: VS fleeing character. Jumps forward, sword raised above head, then slams it down on the ground.
	- [ ] **Windmill**: VS airborne character. Waves his sword in an upward circular motion attacking in front and above him.
	- [ ] **Double slash**: VS running/sliding character. Sometimes cancels the first slash into a windmill or lunge.
	- [ ] **Dodge**: Can dodge player attacks, followed up with one of the three above attacks.
	- [ ] **Run**: Normally walks, but sometimes breaks into a run.
- [ ] **spidercrab**: crawls around on long spindly legs. attacks by stabbing out at the character. big/tough enemy. *I wonder if this could use a similar animation technique to creatures in Rainworld, or in the jungle section of Noita?*
	- [ ] leg stab
	- [ ] pincer
	- [ ] body slam

### Generic Obstacles
Anything that's encountered more than once.
- [ ] **spinning sawblades/grindstones**
	- [ ] moving
	- [ ] staying still
	- [ ] multiple sizes
- [ ] **quicksand-like gorepits**. slowly sink into the pit. can only Launch yourself out of it. if you sink to a certain point, you can't get out. doesn't need tight timing.
- [ ] **crushing walls/floor/ceiling** - e.g. automatic & need good timing.
	- [ ] some are automatic
	- [ ] some are triggered
	- [ ] player dies when crushed between two walls
- [ ] **blood waterfalls** - move objects to interrupt flow, not necesserily using wind to interrupt flow directly
	- [ ] reconsider as purely aesthetic
- [x] **bottomless pits**
- [x] **moving walls & platforms**: These platforms move in a fixed pattern, whether circular, side to side or up and down. They are attached to the processing machinery.
### Mechanics
- [ ] Scales: The character can divert blood flow to tip enormous scales that open sealed gates. 
- [ ] Wind switches: alter the level layout by moving it with the sheer force of your wind magic.

### Aesthetic Features
- [ ] blood lakes
- [ ] piles of bodies
- [ ] weird combinations of fungus & viscera
- [ ] stone carvings
- [ ] vaguely ancient architecture
## Unique

### Locations
- **The Mound**
	- A mound of bodies that marks the beginning of the level
- **Tutorial Room**
	- A basic obstacle section designed to teach the player about the various moves. Should be done as visually as possible.
	- Maybe we can just skip the tutorial and provide a manual in the menu?
- **The Pit**
	- A large pit filled with skeleton enemies. The walls close in gradually. First the player has to fight and survive until the walls close far enough, then scale the edges before being crushed.
- **Geildukhuk's Hut**

### The Boss
#### Design
- Attacks themed around flesh, blood and organs. NO BONES
- Weak points: Eyes. Attacking the creature's eyes cause them to appear on a different segment of the body after a window, forcing you to engage with different parts of the monster.
#### Attacks
- Intestine-rope sweeping attack.
- Stomach acid spray
- Blood laser
- Spawns smaller creatures
- A slam attack that briefly looks like a giant dick
### Scenes
#### Confirmed
- [ ] **Falling Down**: The Nomad's flesh remains fall down a series of stone shafts before landing with a sickening wet thump atop the flesh pile. Slowly, the Nomad's body is reformed by the guardian spirit's essence.
#### Proposed
- [ ] **Awakening**: The Nomad awakens in the company of Geildukhuk and a young girl (Fairy). The fairy & guardian spirit play whilst the nomad & geildukhuk have some dialogue.
### Music
[[Music]]
- [ ] Zone Theme: Flesh Pits
- [ ] Boss Theme: 



## The Boss
A culmination of the hate of every executed human, lashing out at the world. An amalgam of flesh without bone.